Important Agreements - Translation Guidelines
---------------------------------------------

The Translation Guidelines state that a translation needs to be
Accurate, Clear, and Natural. This is not normally something the
technician needs to worry about, but it is part of the agreement to use
the software.

Accurate
~~~~~~~~

Accurate translations effectively communicate the intended meaning of
the original, divinely inspired text. An accurate translation expresses
the meaning the author intended for the original audience in the
original context. 1. To the extent that is possible, nothing is added,
misconstrued, or deleted from the original message. 2. It does not
recast the meaning of the original text to make it more relevant to the
contemporary audience. 3. An accurate translation does not distort the
meaning in order to favor a specific interpretive perspective. It should
be free from theological, cultural, or personal biases. 4. An accurate
translation communicates historical events and facts accurately.

Clear
~~~~~

Clear translations will use whatever language structures are needed to
help readers easily read and understand it. 1. A clear translation may
use as many or as few terms as necessary to communicate the original
meaning as clearly as possible. 2. Making a clear translation does not
mean that the translator clarifies something that is ambiguous in the
source text. 3. Making a clear translation does not mean that the
translator gives the reader a specific interpretation for every passage
where meaning is genuinely debated. ### Natural Natural translations use
language forms that are reflect the way the target language is used in
corresponding contexts. 4. Natural Bible translations sound like they
were produced by an adult native speaker who speaks and/or writes well.
5. A natural Bible translation does not use expressions that are
particular to their own culture in order to make the translation appear
natural. 6. It is more important for a portion of Scripture to be
translated accurately than for it to sound perfectly natural to everyone
who reads it. We believe that a translation has the highest likelihood
of being good quality when after applying the guidelines above, the
following are completed: 7. It is tested and approved by believers of
the language community and their church leaders. 8. Ongoing revisions
and improvements are made.

Lab 18: Translation Guidelines
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. What are the three goals of the Translation Guidelines?
   \________________________________________________________\_
   \________________________________________________________\_
   \________________________________________________________\_
2. What is the overall goal of the Translation Guidelines?
   \________________________________________________________\_
   \________________________________________________________\_
   \________________________________________________________\_
