MAST 8 Steps in Orature
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Step 1 and 2 - Consume and Verbalize
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the first step of the process, the person should listen to the entire
chapter or verses assigned to be translated and try to understand the
meaning and main point of the chapter. 1. An option that allows us to
display the chapter selection panel or to advance between chapters. 2.
Chapter Selection Panel: This allows us to select the assigned chapter
for translation. 3. Play Source: After selecting a chapter, this option
allows us to play the audio in the source language.

Step 3 - Chunking
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the third MAST step, the source audio from the Scriptures is divided
into small parts. In each unit, the translator should include as much of
the audio as they can remember while ensuring that their breathing, tone
of voice, and speaking ability are not affected. 1. Add Chunk: This
option allows us to add a marker above the timeline and audio to define
the amount of sound that makes up a chunk. 2. Scroll Panel: Allows us to
move between the created chunks and replay the source audio. 3. Chunk
Mark: Each time we press Add Chunk, a mark like this will be added with
a related number indicating the number of chunks. 4. Guide Line: It
indicates where the audio is currently playing and where the chunk mark
would be added. (Red Line) 5. Source Audio: Shows a wave form for the
source audio. 6. Chunk Handle: This option allows us to move a created
chunk to the left or right if we want to increase or decrease its range.

Steps 4 and 5 - Blind Draft and Self Edit
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In this step, we start by recording the translation in the target
language. For each Chunk, you can do several takes, and after reviewing,
we can select the best one. You should check clarity, accuracy, fluency,
key terms, and whether the verse is complete according to the source
audio. 1. **Chunks Created Panel**: Allows us to visualize how many
chunks we have created per chapter. Remember that the number of chunks
depends on the translator’s capacity; there is no specific number. 2.
New Recording: Allows us to start recording the selected chunk and sends
us to the recording screen. 3. Recording Panel: Allows us to observe the
amount of recorded information in time. 4. Bottom Panel: When we click
on New Recording (Step 2, above) the bottom panel changes to a Pause
button (as seen near ③). Once we click on Pause it changes again. Resume
will continue the recording in the same file, Save will save and end the
take where we have paused, and Cancel will stop recording without saving
the take. 5. dB Meter: Shows how loudly we are speaking. Green is an
acceptable volume, Orange is dangerous, and Red will record distorted
audio. 6. Play Chunk with Variable Speed: This allows us to listen to
the source audio; if the source audio is hard to understand because it
is too fast or too slow, we can change it with this option. 7. Favorite
Marker: The most recent take will automatically be labeled as favorite.
If you prefer a different take, you can mark it by clicking here. 8.
Delete Take: With this option, we can delete the recording. We must do
this with great care because a recording cannot be recovered if it is
deleted.

MAST Steps – Checking
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Step 6 - Peer Edit
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

With the help of someone else, another team member will listen to our
draft, ask us questions about it, compare it to the source text, and
offer suggestions for edits and ways to improve it. The peer reviewer
should look at things like these: is there anything missing in the
translation? Is the translation natural? Is it clear and understandable?
Is it accurate? Is everything communicated in the source text present in
the translation? Is there consistent use of important terms? 1. Source
Text: This option allows us to read the text while listening to the
translation to verify that nothing is missing. 2. Play: Allows us to
play the recorded translation. 3. Confirm: This allows us to confirm
that the recording is correct. 4. Record: This allows us to re-record in
case we need to find an error or something is missing in the
translation.

Step 7 - Keyword Check
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In this step, after the previous verification, we look for the key terms
in the translation resources we have. We must check in more detail that
none of them are missing in our recording, that all the important
concepts are there, and that the words are adequate to convey the
meaning. Remember that the key terms should be checked in **Step 5 -
Self Edit** and **Step 6 - Peer Edit** before coming to this step. 1.
Source Text: This option allows us to read the text while listening to
the translation to verify that nothing is missing. 2. Play: Allows us to
play the recorded translation. 3. Confirm: This allows us to confirm
that the recording is correct. 4. Record: This allows us to re-record in
case we need to find an error or something is missing in the
translation.

Step 8 - Verse-by-Verse Check
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This step requires three people: the translator and two partners. One of
the partners can translate the passage from the native language into the
source text language. The second person must have good knowledge of the
source text language. The translator will reproduce the translation
chunk by chunk.

Without using other resources, one partner must listen to the
translation in the mother tongue and, chunk by chunk, verbally translate
from the mother tongue to the source text language. The third partner
will listen to the verbal translation (back translation) and compare it
to the source text. The two partners can suggest edits where
appropriate. 1. Play: Allows us to play the recorded translation. 2.
Confirm: This allows us to confirm that the recording is correct. 3.
Record: This allows us to re-record in case we find an error or
something is missing in the translation.

Final Review
^^^^^^^^^^^^

At this last step, we must be sure and have verified in the previous
step that the recording is correct. In this step, we will only place the
marks where each verse that appears in the source text begins. We must
verify in the translation if all the verses are there. When all the
marks are correctly placed, we will have the option to move on to the
next chapter.

1. Add Verse: This option allows us to add a mark to indicate the
   beginning of a verse. Verse marks should be placed according to where
   they are in the source.
2. Verse Marks: Indicate where a verse starts and is numbered
   sequentially.
3. Source Text: Serves as a guide to identify where each verse begins
   and ends and should be the same as the translation.
4. Chunk Handle: This allows us to modify the start or end of a chunk;
   we can move it to the left or right.
