PTXprint - USFM Files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Sample USFM file with identifying information and chapter, paragraph and
verse markers. There are various options for obtaining USFM files of a
translation project. The desired printed output is a factor in which
method you choose. Here are two recommended options.

**Option 1**: Request USFM files from WA Scripture Accessibility -
Better for complete NT or OT book printing in a final form - Request
made in collaboration with Project Manager and Regional Director. -
Contact marv_lucas@wycliffeassociates.org - Advantages - Paragraph marks
added - Chapter labeling and verse numbering issues found - Punctuation
and other typographical issues found - Some potential content issues may
be found - PDF production available

**Option 2**: Export USFM files from BTT-Writer 1.4 - Better for quick
output for checking or trial edition form - Considerations - Need to
export each book (BTT-Writer project) separately - Minimal formatting -
Files will be in “as-is” condition - Method - See Export section in this
manual - Saving the exported file - Do not save in the default location.
- Save in the previously created language folder in
C::raw-latex:`\My `Paratext 9 Projects OR create a language folder at
this time in C::raw-latex:`\My `Paratext 9 Projects in which to save the
USFM file. - Rename the file ``##-XXX.usfm`` where ``##`` is a
two-number code and ``XXX`` is a three-letter abbreviation according to
the chart on the next page.
