Scripture Accessibility - Creative Commons License
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

WA requires that all translation work be released under the Creative
Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC BY-SA 4.0).
This is an Open or Public Copyright License. - It does not do away with
copyright. - Creators retain ownership of the material.

CC BY-SA 4.0 grants permissions and sets requirements up front. - Others
may distribute, remix, adapt, and build upon the material in any medium
or format, so long as attribution is given to the creator. - New
material must be released under the same license (“locked open”). - One
must provide a link to the license. -
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/

CC BY-SA 4.0 in practice - Name the work - State copyright © yyyy group
- Identify license being applied - Provide location of the work if
applicable (e.g. BIEL) - Include attribution of source material - Supply
a link to the license - Optional - add license summary - insert the icon

Scripture Accessibility - ​CC BY-SA 4.0 sample
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Cik Manyen © 2024 Christian Vision for Development and Africa Inland
Church This work is licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License. This translation is
available at https://bibleineverylanguage.org. It is based on the
English Unlocked Literal Bible, under CC BY-SA 4.0, available at
https://bibleineverylanguage.org. The Creative Commons Attribution-Share
Alike 4.0 International License is available at
https://creativecommons.org/license/by-sa/4.0/. The following overview
covers some of the key features and terms of the actual license. You are
free to: - Share – copy and redistribute the material in any medium or
format. - Adapt – remix, transform, and build upon the material for any
purpose, even commercially. - The licensor cannot revoke these freedoms
as long as you follow the license terms.

Under the following terms: - Attribution – You must give appropriate
credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were
made. You may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way that
suggests the licensor endorses you or your use. - ShareAlike – If you
remix, transform, or build upon the material, you must distribute your
contributions under the same license as the original. - No additional
restrictions –You may not apply legal terms or technological measures
that legally restrict others from doing anything the license permits.

Notices: - You do not have to comply with the license for elements of
the material in the public domain or where your use is permitted by an
applicable exception or limitation. - No warranties are given. The
license may not give you all of the permissions necessary for your
intended use. For example, other rights such as publicity, privacy, or
moral rights may limit how you use the material.

Lab 62: Scripture Accessibility
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

1. Download a copy of the Print Preparation Checklist
2. What is the minimum amount of time between submitting a print request
   and releasing a printed New Testament?
   \________________________________________________________\_
3. Choose a language you are working on. Write a simple CC BY-SA 4.0
   License statement.
   Title:____________________________________________________\_
   Copyright Notice:__________________________________________\_ License
   notice:____________________________________________\_
   \________________________________________________________\_
   Attribution statement:_______________________________________\_
   \________________________________________________________\_
   \________________________________________________________\_
