Typing Unicode Characters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you want to type a character in Unicode, it is possible to do it
directly if you know the code number. On Windows, you hold the alt key
and type + and the code number on the numeric keypad. Typing the number
using the keys at the top of the keyboard will not work. This doesn’t
work for computers with no numeric keypad. Also, sometimes Windows
requires decimal numbers instead of hexidecimal for the code.

On macOS there is a special keyboard called Unicode Hex Input (under
Input Sources in the Keyboard settings module). With this active, hold
option and type the code for the character. You can also type “normal”
characters with this input.

On Linux you can either hold ctrl and shift and type u + the number
(very complicated) or you can hold the Compose key and various
combinations. For instance, typing Compose followed by ~ and n will
produce ñ.

Copy-Pasting Characters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Each of the Operating Systems allows copying and pasting of Unicode.
Therefore, if you have a digital copy of some text in the language, you
can copy and paste the necessary characters. This isn’t helpful if you
need to paste type something often.

Windows Keyboards
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Once you know what your characters are, how can you type them? Usually,
the best way to type on Windows is to use one of the built-in keyboards.
This is guaranteed to be compatible with the OS, and is often an easy
way to find what you need.

Which Windows keyboard will type the character I want?
https://kbdlayout.info/features/unicode is a website that lists the
available keyboards in Windows by their Unicode character sets. If you
go to https://kbdlayout.info/kbdal/how you can enter one or many
characters and the website will show you which Windows keyboards allow
typing those characters. It is possible that not all Windows keyboards
are represented.

You can also search for pasted characters at
https://util.unicode.org/UnicodeJsps/list-unicodeset.jsp and receive a
list of character sets that include the character.

This is still the hardest part of this topic.

Polyglot Keyboard
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The PolyglotKeyboard is a good way to type languages from sub-Saharan
Africa and much of South America. It is quite easy to use, once you
learn how, and it allows a wide range of characters. Because it allows
using the combining characters quite simply, it is a good choice for
many people. Please Note that this software is for Windows only,
although there are two apps for Android: African Keyboard, and South
American Keyboard. These two apps are the same product, but for Android.

In the Windows version, you can switch between African Languages, South
American Native Languages, and Southeast Asian Languages.

Other Android Keyboards
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Android comes with many keyboards, but not as many as the desktop
systems. You can use the African Keyboard or South American Keyboard, or
you can see if Gboard will do what you need. Gboard, like most Android
keyboards, supports different characters using a long press on a key. It
also comes with many layouts for many languages.

Now, Gboard also supports written input, though we have not tested this
with minority languages.

Keyman
^^^^^^

Finally, if you need a complete keyboard for a specific language, Keyman
software runs on Windows, macOS, Linux and Android devices, and has long
lists of keyboards.

Keyman not only has thousands of languages supported by its keyboards,
it also has tools to create new keyboards. These keyboards can generally
be used on any of the platforms that can use Keyman.

Creating a keyboard for Keyman is not a simple process.

Lab 58: Finding a Keyboard
''''''''''''''''''''''''''

This lab is a bit different. There are so many solutions to the keyboard
problem, but many of them are not adequate. **African Keyboard** was
suggested by one of our field technicians who had used it. In fact, we
have found that many of our solutions have been discovered by people in
the field. One thing that should be remembered about any solution: it
must be freely usable. This does not include software with a free trial
period, or that was included for someone as part of their job or
education. Using software like that for our translation work would be a
violation of the license, and would be stealing.

Solutions that are cross-platform are better than solutions that only
work on one type of device. Solutions that are not ad-supported are good
for protecting the data usage of our partners.

In this, as in many other things, if a team member has an idea or makes
a discovery, please share it with the rest of the team. It may not be
adopted broadly, but you may help some people.
