BTT-Writer
==========

In order to complete this section, you will need an email address that
you can check while doing this work. (Of course, you will need some kind
of Internet connection, too.)

If BTT-Writer will only be used off-line, i.e. there will not be any
uploads or downloads, you don’t need an account on WACS, and you won’t
need an email for this section. However, the full power of BTT-Writer is
only realized when you upload your work to WACS for safe-keeping.

BTT-Writer can be downloaded from GitHub, at
https://github.com/Bible-Translation-Tools/BTT-Writer-Desktop/releases/latest
or
https://github.com/Bible-Translation-Tools/BTT-Writer-Android/releases/latest.
BTT-Writer Desktop and BTT-Writer Android work very similarly, but they
are completely different programs. Most of this training is oriented
towards use of BTT-Writer Desktop (which can be used on any computer
that runs a recent version of Windows, macOS, or Linux). Where there are
differences for BTT-Writer Android, we will try to make note of them.

Every current version of BTT-Writer (including for Android) is available
for download from Basic Translation Tools
https://basictranslationtools.org. #### Lab 10: BTT-Writer Lab 1 BTT
Writer can be downloaded from many different places. 1. If you want to
download BTT-Writer without using the word “Bible” in your browser,
which site should you use?
\________________________________________________________\_ 2. If you
want to be completely sure you have the newest version, which site
should you use?
\________________________________________________________\_ 3. Which
site will allow you to download either the Desktop or the Android
version of BTT-Writer?
\________________________________________________________\_ 4. Before
continuing the training, make sure you have downloaded the latest
version of BTT-Writer
