Exports
~~~~~~~

We discussed Exports briefly when describing the menu. You should
remember that you can export from the Home Screen by using the 3 Dot
Menu and choosing Export, or by using the details control (info dot) and
clicking on either the Export arrow or the printer icon .

You can also export from within a project by using the 3 Dot Menu. ####
Upload to Server In order to Upload to Server, you must - Have a WACS
account. - Be logged in to your WACS account in BTT-Writer. - Have an
Internet connection.

This will make a connection to bibletranslationtools.org. If it is not
safe for you to connect to that site, please use a VPN. If the project
(same target language, same book, same project type) already exists on
WACS in your account, it will be updated with the changes from your
project.

If the project in your account has been updated by a different computer
since your last upload, BTT-Writer will offer to merge the changes from
WACS to the project on your computer. After you do this, you will need
to upload again.

If the merging of the two versions introduces any conflicts, you will
need to correct those. The section of this manual on Merge Conflicts
will give you more information.

You should never give your username and password to another person, and
you should not log in your account to BTT-Writer on a computer while
someone else is using. Uploading to the same account from several
different computers can cause lots of problems. Each BTT-Writer user who
uploads to WACS should have his or her own account on WACS. This
problem, of needing to merge every time you upload, is only one of the
problems caused by multiple people using the same account.

Uploading to Server is the best way to keep translation data safe.

Lab 49: Upload to Server
''''''''''''''''''''''''

1. To upload to the server, you must have a WACS account. T F
2. To upload to the server, you must be logged in to WACS in BTT-Writer.
   T F
3. To upload to the server, you donâ€™t need an Internet connection. T F
4. Sharing a WACS account is the best way to work together on a project.
   T F
5. What happens if the project already exists in your WACS account when
   you upload?
   \________________________________________________________\_
   \________________________________________________________\_
   \________________________________________________________\_
   \________________________________________________________\_
   \________________________________________________________\_
   \________________________________________________________\_
