Orature Recording Modes - Narration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For recording audio of an existing written translation in the same
language. The translators perform the 8 MAST steps during the
translation process, but the recording takes place after the translation
has been approved. 1. Click on the plus sign on the Orature home page in
the blue box. In the upper left corner. 2. Find the Narration Mode and
click on Select. 3. Select the language. This will serve as a reading
resource to develop the narration correctly. You can search for it in
the list or type the name of the language in the search box. 4. Now, you
must select the book to work on; the project manager will provide this
information. You can search for it in the list or type the name of the
book in the search box. 5. In the narration screen we have different
options to record correctly: 6. Chapter selection panel: This panel
allows us to select the chapter we will start working on or continue
working on. 7. Record allows us to start recording. 8. Playback panel.
9. When you press Record, different options will appear that you should
be aware of: 1. Resume: When we pause while recording, this option
allows us to continue recording. 2. Save: This option saves the
recording we have made. 3. Re-record: This option allows us to re-record
but overwrite the previous recording. 4. Options Menu: 1. Play: Plays
audio of the selected verse. 2. Record Again: Gives us the option to
re-record the audio of the selected verse. 3. Open in: Opens the
Ocenaudio[^9] editing program to edit the recorded audio. 4. Import:
This option imports an audio file to the selected verse. The file can be
in *WAV,*\ MP3, or \*PCM format, and it will replace the current one.

Orature Recording Modes - Dialect
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Record the audio of an existing written translation in a different
language variety/dialect. This process does not require users to follow
the MAST steps. 1. Click on the plus sign on the Orature home page in
the blue box. In the upper left corner. 2. our three recording options,
we select Dialect by left-clicking on “Select.” 3. Select the language.
This will serve as a reading resource to develop the narration
correctly. You can search for it in the list or type the name of the
language in the search box. 4. Select the book to work on. The project
manager will provide this information. You can search for the book in
the list or type the name in the search box. 5. On the narration screen,
we have different options to develop the narration correctly: 1. Chapter
selection panel that allows us to select the chapter we will start
working on or continue working with. 2. Record allows us to start
recording. 3. Playback panel. 6. When you press Record, you will see
different options that you should know about: 1. Resume: when we pause
while recording, this option allows us to continue recording. 2. Save:
this option saves the recording we have made. 3. Re-record: this option
allows us to re-record but overwrite the previous recording. 4. Options
menu: 1. Play: Plays audio of the selected verse. 2. Record Again: Gives
us the option to re-record the audio of the selected verse. 3. Open in:
Opens the Ocenaudio[^8] editing program to edit the recorded audio. 4.
Import: This option imports to the selected verse an audio file in
\*WAV, \*MP3, or \*PCM format, which will replace the current one.
